docs(core-concepts): adds descriptions for greenhouse core concepts (#651)
cloudoperators/greenhouse: docs/getting-started/core-concepts/teams.md

---
title: "Teams"
weight: 2
---

## What are Teams?

Teams are used to manage access to resources in Greenhouse and managed Kubernetes clusters. Each team must be backed by a group in the identity provider (IdP) of the organization. Teams are used to structure members of your organization and assign fine-grained access and permission levels. The Greenhouse Dashboard is showing the members of a team.

## Team RBAC

> Team RBAC wraps the concept of Kubernetes RBAC into TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings. TeamRoles are used to define a set of RBAC permissions. These permissions can be granted to Teams with TeamRoleBindings. A TeamRoleBinding refers to a Team, a TeamRole, Cluster(s) and optional Namespaces. Depending on the latter, Greenhouse will create the appropriate rbacv1 resources on the targeted cluster(s) in either cluster or namespace scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TeamRoles` and `TeamRoleBindings` provide a mechanism to control permissions on your onboarded `Clusters` on `Team` granularity. 

Team RBAC wraps the concept of Kubernetes RBAC into `TeamRoles` and `TeamRoleBindings`. `TeamRoles` are used to define a set of RBAC permissions. These permissions can be granted to `Teams` with `TeamRoleBindings`. A `TeamRoleBinding` connects a `Team`, a `TeamRole`, `Cluster(s)` and optional Namespaces. Depending on the latter, Greenhouse will create the appropriate rbacv1 resources on the targeted cluster(s) in either cluster or namespace scope.
```

> Team RBAC wraps the concept of Kubernetes RBAC into TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings. TeamRoles are used to define a set of RBAC permissions. These permissions can be granted to Teams with TeamRoleBindings. A TeamRoleBinding refers to a Team, a TeamRole, Cluster(s) and optional Namespaces. Depending on the latter, Greenhouse will create the appropriate rbacv1 resources on the targeted cluster(s) in either cluster or namespace scope.

Reviewer 2: The highlighting is inconsistent across the docs.

```suggestion
TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings provide a mechanism to control team access and team ownership of resources in the managed Clusters.

Team RBAC wraps the concept of Kubernetes RBAC in TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings. TeamRoles are used to define a set of RBAC authorizations. These permissions can be assigned to Teams with TeamRoleBindings. A TeamRoleBinding connects a Team and TeamRole to Clusters and optionally Namespaces. Depending on the latter, Greenhouse creates the corresponding `rbacv1` resources on the targeted clusters, which are either cluster-wide or scoped to a namespace.
```

More information about how this can be configured is mentioned in this [user guide](../../user-guides/team/rbac.md).

Example of a TeamRoleBinding for a `observability-admin` which grants the `cluster-admin` role on the `observability` cluster in the `logs` and `metrics` namespaces. The TeamRoleBindign contains a list of namespaces and a label selector to select the cluster(s) to target. If no namespaces are provided, then Greenhouse will create a ClusterRoleBinding instead of a RoleBinding.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph "Greenhouse" 

>     subgraph "Organization" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    subgraph "namespace: <org-name>" 
```

---
title: "Teams"
weight: 2
---

## What are Teams?

Teams are used to manage access to resources in Greenhouse and managed Kubernetes clusters. Each Team must be backed by a group in the identity provider (IdP) of the Organization. Teams are used to structure members of your Organization and assign fine-grained access and permission levels. The Greenhouse Dashboard is showing the members of a Team.

## Team RBAC

TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings provide a mechanism to control the premissions of Teams to onboarded Clusters of an Organization.

Team role-bared access control (RBAC) wraps the concept of Kubernetes RBAC in TeamRoles and TeamRoleBindings. TeamRoles are used to define a set of RBAC permissions. These permissions can be granted to Teams with TeamRoleBindings. A TeamRoleBinding refers to a Team, a TeamRole, Cluster(s) and optional Namespaces. Depending on the latter, Greenhouse will create the appropriate `rbacv1` resources on the targeted cluster(s) in either cluster or namespace scope.
More information about how this can be configured is mentioned in this [user guide](../../user-guides/team/rbac.md).

> Example of a TeamRoleBinding for a `observability-admin` which grants the `cluster-admin` role on the `observability` cluster in the `logs` and `metrics` namespaces. The TeamRoleBindign contains a list of namespaces and a label selector to select the cluster(s) to target. If no namespaces are provided, then Greenhouse will create a ClusterRoleBinding instead of a RoleBinding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example of a TeamRoleBinding for a `observability-admin` which grants the `cluster-admin` role on the `observability` cluster in the `logs` and `metrics` namespaces. The TeamRoleBinding contains a list of namespaces and a label selector to select the cluster(s) to target. If no Namespaces are provided, then Greenhouse will create a ClusterRoleBinding instead of a RoleBinding.
```
